JAXB makes use of XML schema,
so it's important that you understand what XML schema is.
Let's take a quick look at the most important concepts of XML schema.
XML, unlike like HTML, does not have a fixed set of tags.
When you're going to use XML for your application,
you'll be inventing your own set of tags that have
meaning in the context of your application.
An XML schema describes the data model of an XML file,
what elements can appear in the XML, what the content of these elements can be,
and what attributes they can have.
Remember the XML document from the previous clip.
To be a valid purchaseOrder,
the XML document must have a certain structure
that's defined by your application.
For example,
the purchaseOrder element must contain and items element that contains one
or more item elements and exactly one customer element,
etc.
XML processing tools can use the schema,
for example, to check if an XML document is valid according to the schema.
There are different standard schema languages for XML.
The original schema language, which was invented together with XML itself,
is DTD, which stands for Document Type Definition,
but DTD has limitations.
For example,
it doesn't support namespaces and it doesn't support datatypes
for the content of elements and attributes.
So there is, for example,
no way to specify in a DTD that a certain element
should contain a number or a date.
The most widely used standard schema language is XML schema.
If you're working with JAXB,
it's important to understand the XML schema because
JAXB heavily makes use of it.
XML schema files are XML files themselves and have the extension XSD,
which stands for XML Schema Definition.
If you want to know everything about XML schema,
you can look up the specifications on the website of
the World Wide Web Consortium, the W3C,
but be aware that the official specification is a
very dry and technical document, which is hard to read.
Fortunately, the W3C also has a more easy-to- read tutorial,
the XML Schema Primer.
Let's go back to the IDE again and look at what the most
important concepts of XML schema are.
Here is an example XSD file which defines a small
domain model for purchase orders.
The tags that can be used in XML schema are defined in the
standard namespace that is defined by this URI.
We are using the namespace prefix xs here for the XML schema tags.
Note that you can, in principle, choose any prefix you like within your document,
but xs is what is conventionally used for XSD files.
The root element is an xs schema element.
You can define a handful of different things at the root level.
My IDE helps me here.
If I type an opening angle bracket, it gives me a list of things I can choose.
The most important things that it can define at root level are
elements and attributes and simple and complex types.
Let's take a look at the definition of the purchaseOrder element.
This element has a complex type.
There are two kinds of types in XML schema.
There are simple types,
which are for the text content of elements and attributes.
We will take a look at those in a moment.
Complex types are primarily for elements that can contain other nested elements.
What we see here is that a purchaseOrder element must contain a
sequence of three other elements: an items,
a customer, and a comment element.
Note that because it's a sequence,
the elements must appear in the purchaseOrder element exactly in this order.
If the XML would contain the customer element before the items element,
for example, then that would be an error,
and the XML would not be valid.
The type of the purchaseOrder element is defined here on the spot,
directly in the definition of the element itself.
Another thing you can do is define the type separately,
and then in the element definition, point to the definition of the type.
That's what done here for the items and customer elements.
The advantage of this is that it makes it possible to reuse types.
So if you have multiple elements that have the same type,
then you don't have to copy and paste the type definition,
and it also makes the schema more readable.
You can also define the element itself somewhere else,
which is what I've done here with the comment element.
Instead of a name attribute, it has a ref attribute and no type.
The type is specified at the actual definition of the
element somewhere else in the file.
To indicate how often an element may appear in the XML,
you can use the minOccurs and maxOccurs attributes.
The comment element here has minOccurs set to 0, which means that it's optional.
The defaults for minOccurs and maxOccurs is 1.
So if you omit these attributes, then the element must appear exactly once.
Finally in the definition of the purchaseOrder element,
it's specified here that the purchaseOrder element
must have an orderData attribute.
The type of this attribute is xs:date,
which is one of the built-in simple types of XML schema.
Xs:date is a date in ISO 8601 format, which means that it's a year,
month, and date separated by dashes.
The type of the items element in a purchase order is Items.
This type is a complex type, which is defined at the root level of the XSD.
It contains a sequence of at least 0 item elements.
Note that maxOccurs is set to unbounded here,
which is a special value to indicate that there's no limit to the
number of times this element may appear in the XML.
The type of the item element is defined in-line here.
It's, again, a complex type that consists of a sequence of a few other elements,
productName, quantity, price, and comment.
The productName is just a string.
Note that xs:string is another one of the built-in simple types.
The quantity element has a slightly more elaborate simple type.
It's based on xs:positiveInteger, which is,
again, one of the built-in simple types,
and it has a restriction added to it.
The value must be less than 100.
Then there is the price element, which is of type xs:decimal,
which, as you can guess,
is a built-in simple type for numbers with a decimal digit.
Finally, we allow an item to have a comment,
which is represented by the comment element,
which we used before in the purchaseOrder.
The Customer complexType has the name of the customer,
the shipping and buildingAddress and a loyalty element.
Let's skip the Address type and look at the Loyalty type.
This is something that looks like a Java enum.
It's a simple type based on xs:string that has
three possible enumeration values.
Finally, there is the definition of the comment element,
which is a string with a maximum length of 1000 characters.
That's our simple XML schema for purchaseOrders.
There is, of course, a lot more to learn about XML schema,
but we won't go into all of the details here.
If you want to learn more about XML schema,
the XML Schema Primer from the World Wide Web Consortium that I mentioned before is a good place to start.